Steve's Stories. My name is Steve Fletcher and in 1990 I founded Swicker Carnival who have organised Cardiff Carnival ever since.
Story number 8. Cardiff Carnival finales in Cardiff Bay.
In the year 2000 and for a number of years thereafter, the focus of Cardiff Carnival shifted to the Cardiff Bay area, which is enjoyed rejuvenation by the Cardiff Bay Development Corporation.
The parade's route would include passing the length and breadth of the popular Mermaid Quay site, which was regularly rammed with thousands of onlookers, some even enjoying a bird's eye view of the parade from bridges and balconies.
The parade would finish in the Roald Dahl Plas, which was better known by all as the Oval Basin due to its shape.
Working in conjunction with Cardiff County Council events team and the Cardiff Summer Festival, the Cardiff Carnival finale presentations would benefit from a massive stage and PA system.
These facilities meant that each and every different costume section on the parade could mount the specially ramped stage and give a brief performance to the large family audience assembled.
These audiences regularly numbered well over 10,000.
It was great to be given the opportunity to thank each different costume section and even name check certain key players within that section, whilst explaining the ideas that inspired the costumes that were being danced on stage.
Once the last parade had crossed the ramped stage, Cardiff Carnival organised a number of different musical acts, many of which featured local young musicians and singers who were delighted to be on a huge festival-sized stage using a massive PA before a thronged Oval Basin audience.
One act in particular sticks in my memory, not least that it was the result of a chance encounter in a Cardiff taxi.
When I mentioned my involvement in the carnival, the taxi driver suddenly burst into song and delivered a satirical calypso with his own devising.
I was in the presence of Lord Melody, originally from Grenada in the Caribbean and who had made Cardiff his home.
So, the headlining stage act of Cardiff Carnival 2000 involved Lord Melody and his band of local musicians called the Melody Makers performing their upbeat socaversion of the Welsh National Anthem to a wildly dancing audience as the sky above exploded with synchronised red, green and white fireworks, the colours of the Welsh national flag.
I can honestly say that I have never since heard or seen a more joyous and upbeat version of our national anthem.